Project Output & Detailed Analysis
Project Title

Network Traffic Capture, DNS Spoofing, and Credential Analysis Using Bettercap

Tool Used

Bettercap v2.33.0

Platform: Kali Linux

Network Type: Local Area Network (LAN)

1. Test Environment Setup

To simulate a controlled attack environment, a local web server was started on the Kali machine.

Command Used
sudo service apache2 start


Result:
✔ Apache web server started successfully and was ready to host fake or test web pages for redirection.

2. Network Sniffing Configuration

The network sniffer module was studied and configured to capture traffic flowing through the attacker system.

Important Parameter
net.sniff.local


Purpose:

When enabled, captures packets to and from the attacker machine

Useful for monitoring redirected traffic during MITM attacks

3. ARP Spoofing Configuration (MITM Setup)
Commands Used
set arp.spoof.fullduplex true
set arp.spoof.targets 192.168.95.129


Analysis:

Full-duplex ARP spoofing poisoned both the target and the gateway

Enabled a stable Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) position

Target system traffic was successfully routed through the attacker machine

4. DNS Sniffing & Observation
Command Used
net.sniff on


Observed Output:

DNS queries from the target system were captured

Requests to domains such as:

mozilla-ohttp.fastly-edge.com

detectportal.prod.cloudops.mozgcp.net

Reverse DNS lookups (in-addr.arpa) returned Non-Existent Domain

Analysis:
This confirms that DNS traffic from the victim machine was successfully intercepted and monitored.

5. DNS Spoofing Configuration

To demonstrate DNS spoofing, a specific domain was configured to resolve to the attacker’s IP address.

Commands Used
set dns.spoof.domains motionmodexys.com
set dns.spoof.address 192.168.95.132


Purpose:

Redirect victim traffic for motionmodexys.com to the Kali machine

Simulate phishing or malicious redirection scenarios

6. DNS Spoofing Result (Client-Side Observation)

On the Windows target machine, when the user attempted to access:

http://motionmodexys.com

Observed Result

Browser displayed: “Server Not Found”

The domain failed to load correctly

Analysis:

DNS spoofing successfully altered name resolution

Since no matching hosted content was available for that domain on Apache, the browser failed to load the site

This confirms that DNS resolution was controlled by the attacker

✔ DNS spoofing attack was successfully demonstrated

7. HTTP Traffic & Credential Capture Demonstration

Using a deliberately vulnerable test website (testphp.vulnweb.com):

HTTP requests and responses were intercepted

Login POST request captured:

uname=test&pass=test


HTTP headers revealed:

Server version

PHP version

Session cookies

Analysis:

Plain-text HTTP traffic can be easily intercepted in MITM attacks

Sensitive data such as usernames, passwords, cookies, and headers are exposed

Highlights the importance of HTTPS and secure transport layers

8. Security Impact Assessment
Attacks Successfully Demonstrated

Network reconnaissance

ARP spoofing (MITM)

DNS sniffing

DNS spoofing

HTTP traffic interception

Credential capture from unsecured websites

Risks Identified

DNS manipulation can redirect users to malicious servers

MITM attackers can steal sensitive data

HTTP-based logins are highly insecure on shared networks

9. Ethical Considerations

All testing performed in a controlled lab environment

Only test websites and test credentials were used

No real user data was accessed

The project strictly follows ethical hacking guidelines

10. Security Recommendations
Issue	Recommendation
ARP Spoofing	Enable Dynamic ARP Inspection (DAI)
DNS Spoofing	Use secure DNS (DNSSEC, DoH)
HTTP Traffic	Enforce HTTPS everywhere
Credential Exposure	Use encrypted authentication
Network Attacks	Monitor ARP tables & IDS alerts
11. Project Conclusion

This project successfully demonstrated how Bettercap can be used to analyze and test network security by performing MITM-based attacks such as ARP spoofing, DNS spoofing, and traffic sniffing. The experiment highlighted how insecure network configurations and unencrypted protocols can expose sensitive information to attackers.

The project emphasizes the importance of secure network design, encrypted communication, and proactive monitoring to defend against such attacks.